Appendix A Summary of guidelines

Rule 1.1 The program shall contain no violations of the standard C syntax and constraints, and shall not exceed the implementation's translation limits.
Rule 2.7 A function should not contain unused parameters.
Rule 8.1 Types shall be explicitly specified.
Rule 8.2 Function types shall be in prototype form with named parameters.
Rule 8.4 A compatible declaration shall be visible when an object or function with external linkage is defined.
Rule 8.9 An object should be declared at block scope if its identifier only appears in a single function.
Rule 8.10 An inline function shall be declared with the static storage class.
Rule 8.14 The restrict type qualifier shall not be used.
Rule 9.2 The initializer for an aggregate or union shall be enclosed in braces.
Rule 9.3 Arrays shall not be partially initialized.
Rule 10.1 Operands shall not be of an inappropriate essential type.
Rule 10.6 The value of a composite expression shall not be assigned to an object with wider essential type.
Rule 10.8 The value of a composite expression shall not be cast to a different essential type category or a wider essential type.
Rule 11.1 Conversions shall not be performed between a pointer to a function and any other type.
Rule 11.5 A conversion should not be performed from pointer to void into pointer to object.
Rule 13.4 The result of an assignment operator should not be used.
Rule 14.4 The controlling expression of an if statement or a iteration-statement shall have essentially Boolean type.
Rule 15.1 The goto statement should not be used.
Rule 15.5 A function shall have a single point of exit at the end.
Rule 15.7 All if...else if constructs shall be terminated with an else statement.
Rule 16.6 Every switch statement shall have at least two switch-clauses.
Rule 16.7 A switch-expression shall not have essentially Boolean type.
Rule 17.3 A function shall not be declared implicitly.
Rule 17.7 The value returned by a function having non-void return type shall be used.
Rule 18.3 The relational operators shall not be applied to objects of pointer type except where they point into the same object.
Rule 18.4 The +, -, += and -= operators shall not be applied to an expression of pointer type.
Rule 20.1 #include directives should only be preceded by other preprocessor directives or comments.
Rule 21.3 The memory allocation and deallocation functions of <stdlib.h> shall not be used.
Rule 21.6 The Standard Library input/output functions shall not be used.
Rule 21.10 The Standard Library time and date functions shall not be used.
